# supermarket_sales_analysis
This Supermarket Sales Data Analysis Project is based on a data set that includes supermarket sales information. This dataset from kaggle, includes columns such as InvoiceID, Branch, City, CustomerType, Gender, ProductLine, UnitPrice, Quantity, Tax5%, Total, Date, Time, Payment, COGS, GrossMarginPercentage, GrossIncome, and Rating. The background to this project is to analyze supermarket sales data to gain valuable insights into sales trends, customer behavior and the influence of other factors on gross income.

The aim of this project is to conduct an in-depth analysis of the Supermarket Sales dataset to identify sales patterns and trends that can assist business decision making. Through this analysis, we can answer important questions such as which branch has the best results in the loyalty program, whether membership depends on customer ratings, and whether gross revenue depends on the proportion of customers in the loyalty program and its relationship to payment methods.

In addition, this project also aims to explore the differences in indicators between male and female customers and identify product categories that generate the highest revenue. With this analysis, it is expected to provide valuable insights to supermarket owners to optimize sales strategies, understand customer preferences, and increase customer satisfaction and loyalty. Through the visualization provided, the results of this analysis can be clearly understood and provide a comprehensive picture of the supermarket's sales performance.
